Hello everyone and welcome back.
In this lecture you're gonna learn all the skills necessary to combine multiple images that you've already
made into one final composite image as we can see here it's made from at least three other images that
we've already gone through and made.
And we brought them in to one final image.
So let's go and learn about combining multiple images.
Hello and welcome back over into guimpe.
The first thing some going to do now is create a new image for other images to exist in.
And I'm going to go to file new.
And instead of creating a 32 by 32 image which wouldn't give us much room to manoeuvre these images
as we bring them in.
I'm going to make it 48 by 48.
That should give us enough room around our images.
So that with that created a.
Zoom in.
And there we go.
That image is ready to go.
And in order to demonstrate a couple of these methods I'm going to have to have some images open as
well so I'm going to go to file from recent and I'm going to open up some recent ones that I've been
working on.
Shield.
And then finally I'm going to open up the jewel swords as well.
Okay so now that we have those open there is going to be more than one way of doing this.
I'm going to show you two in this particular lecture for you to be able to do.
Now we can see at the moment that this sword image this double sword images has three layers on it.
The Shield has four layers on it.
And the fire has two layers on it.
Now the first method is simply to click and drag the tab at the very top of your image editor over to
the new image.
And then finally we do have to move it down onto the canvas itself.
When we let go it appears now noticed that only one of those two layers has come across.
And by one of those two layers what is done is taken those two layers and put it as one layer.
And this means we cannot separate the black from the flame anymore the background and that flame simile
here because I've already turned off the background.
If I click and drag that over to our new image and then down onto the canvas before letting go.
It appears but this time with the alpha it's ready to go.
Brilliant.
So from doing that we can see that when you click and drag it comes across exactly how it is and if
it's made up of multiple layers it collapses those mosberg layers into what you see currently.
You can also click and drag from individual layers.
So if I just wanted this sword I could click the layer drag it across to our new image and drop it in.
That would work absolutely fine.
Now one of the things that you have to watch out for when you're just dragging things in like this is
the laicised differences that we've already seen what happens when one layer is smaller.
If you were to in like this top edge here you can see there's a harsh divide between what you'd think
was the rest of the canvas and what the actual size of the layer you're working on.
Now having layers of different sizes is very useful.
Enables you to not use up too much memory and it's essentially an optimization.
Now what we can do is we can make our sword copy lay.
You can see here it's brought across sword copy.
We have a look down here from sword however the others are called drop buffer so we can make this much
larger than it currently is the layer itself can be larger than the canvas size or it can be smaller
as we can see here or indeed as normal it would be the same size.
If we go up to the layer menu not scaled layer as you might guess initially because that will blow things
up.
In fact if I do that now and change just to 48 by 48 with out any into place qan and there we go our
sword now looks a bit rubbish to be honest because it's broken up are nice edges that we once had if
I undo that was I really want to do here is change the boundry size.
So this yellow and black ball that exists around it is the layer boundary.
And I can adjust that and make that Forty eight by forty eight and I'm going to click the link here.
All I need to make sure of are both the same.
Before I do that otherwise it will fail.
Now the first thing before we go and hit resize is I want the image to be in the centre of the expanding
layer not to one side and conveniently they have a button the centre button on that's clicked your image
is placed in the centre and the boundary will expand in all directions.
In this case 48 by 48 with a click re size and we can see now the black and yellow border has expanded
to fill the rest of the image.
When We've got sword copy selected Now this black in yellow boundary can be annoying sometimes.
See you can go in to view and show layer boundary you can turn that off.
If it you find it distracting.
And again you can turn it back on by just clicking show layer boundary at the moment we're dealing with
relatively simple constructions with our images.
However later on they might be a bit more involved.
I mean this shield itself now consists of three layers.
If we wanted each one of those layers across we could click and drag each one but that would be a bit
too involved who was more than three.
What we can do however if I go to file and go to open as layers.
But before I do that let's make sure the destination image is selected first.
There we go.
Go file open as layers and go find my shield.
In this case you see that the middle shield an outline have come across and the background that was
turned off.
We go here we can see middle shield outline and background says come across exactly how it was before.
And this is of course very useful if you've got an image that's made up of a multitude of layers and
you need them all to come across for further control over your image now the final way that you can
get part of an image across from one image to another is by copying and pasting.
Now if I just zoom in to my shield here we've got the outline selected as the active layer.
If I go ahead and go edit copy.
And go to my new image.
I can go edit and paste.
You'll notice that it has been pasted but as a floating selection it will deal with floating selections
in greater detail later Ron.
Bartz One of the important things is that if you do get a floating selection if you cut copy and paste
or cut and paste something you cannot really do anything else in GIMP until you have anchored that layer.
And this will catch a lot of people out especially if you tried cutting and pasting in the past.
Now in order to anchor that layer as you probably guess you can go to layer and then anklebone we can
see the shortcut key is control an H.
You could right click on the liar an anchor of The Liar or indeed there's a little anchor button down
at the very bottom of the layers tab.
If you go ahead and anchor the floating layer it will then appear as a normal layer and that will enable
you to start editing the rest of your file again.
And that can be very confusing if you dont spot that it's a floating selection.
Now the eagle eyed amongst you would have noticed that one of the things you can do here is go edit
copy visible.
And then go to our new image.
And I'm going to get rid of a couple of the items here.
I'm going to get rid of everything but just the background for the moment.
Now if I go paste you can see that it's come as a floating selection like an anchor of that down.
And now because of what the background turned off.
There we go.
That's come in.
Exactly how it was before.
Almost as if we're dragged and dropped it on.
If I created a new layer first and then gone Edit Paste and then anchor that layer it comes across as
I would expect it to.
It's only because I pasted it directly onto the background that we had that white background again.
But otherwise we got it in as an individual layer.
Now the great thing about doing it this way is that our canvas size and layer size will be matched.
So in this case 48 by 48 It had the same size dimensions as the original canvas does.
So I go ahead and click okay here we got a 48 by 48 layer which means that when we go ahead and paste
then anchor it comes in as we would expect it to.
But there's no boundary size changes that need to be done.
That's of course if that was something that was necessary to do to your image in the first place.
One thing you can do of course is from your file system itself you could find something like Here file
one and drag and drop that onto gimp and it will open it up as well.
Now there is one thing to bear in mind when you do that and that is the fact that you cannot easily
preview these without some third party applications.
I won't go into that at the moment but certainly if we'd already condensed it into something that the
operating system can see straight away like these p n gs that we exported earlier for instance this
fire three I can drag that on and it will appear.
Now you can see here this was one of my exports.
So it is in fact larger than 48 By 40 I think we expanded to 64 by 64.
But the actual layer is going to be 64 where 64 which means if I zoom out slightly and move it around
what we can see the layer boundary is larger than the canvas but it does mean that none of this data
is lost.
The whole lot is there as we move it around.
Perfect.
So there are lots of options there for moving.
Your image is about an between multiple guimpe files and I'm really looking forward to seeing what you
guys do with this new found knowledge and you'll have an opportunity to test that knowledge in the next
lecture.